The Power of Your Subconscious Mind, Joseph Murphy


‘The doctor dresses the wound and God heals it.”


Prayers are answered when the individual’s subconscious mind responds to the mental picture or thou...free plan limit


answered prayer is the realisation of your heart’s desire.


If you want to make use of the force of your subconscious mind, you must learn its principles.


The law of your mind is the law of belief. This means to believe in the way your mind works, to bel...free plan limit


Your subconscious mind takes the orders you give it, based upon what your conscious mind believes a...free plan limit


“Never finish a negative statement. Reverse it immediately and wonders will happen in your life.”


Once the subconscious mind accepts an idea, it begins to execute it.


Your subconscious mind accepts what is impressed upon it or what you consciously believe. It does n...free plan limit


Your subconscious mind is very sensitive to suggestion.


a suggestion cannot impose itself on the subconscious mind against the will of the conscious mind. ...free plan limit


The method he used was to convey the idea of perfect health to his subconscious mind.


Several times a day I would make certain that I was completely relaxed mentally and physically. I r...free plan limit


Whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive. MATT.


What things soever ye desire; when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them.


Franz Anton Mesmer


believe you have received, and you shall


Remember, it is not the thing believed in that hurts or harms you, but the belief or thought in you...free plan limit


Prayer is the formulation of an idea concerning something we wish to accomplish. Prayer is the soul...free plan limit


best way to impress the subconscious mind is to enter into a drowsy, sleepy state, or a state akin ...free plan limit


The result of the affirmative process of prayer depends on conforming to the principles of life, re...free plan limit


In trying to steal from others, they are robbing themselves of peace, harmony, faith, honesty, inte...free plan limit


first step to success is to find out the thing you love to do, then do it.


The infinite intelligence of my subconscious mind reveals to me my true place in life.


The second step to success is to specialise in some particular branch of work and strive to excel i...free plan limit


You must be sure that the thing you want to do does not contribute only to your own success. Your d...free plan limit


There is no success without peace of mind.


realise that my subconscious mind is a storehouse of memory. It retains everything I read and hear ...free plan limit


When you trust in the Lord (the power and wisdom of your subconscious mind) to lead, guide, govern,...free plan limit


Happiness is a state of mind.


The great things of life are simple, dynamic, and creative.


When your desire to give up the bad habit is greater than your need to continue it, you will be ama...free plan limit


Realise that something good can come out of your suffering.


“Do the thing you are afraid to do, and the death of fear is certain.”


The Great Gatsby, F. Scott Fitzgerald


I wanted the world to be in uniform and at a sort of moral attention forever;


Not even the effeminate swank of his riding clothes could hide the enormous power of that body


‘I’m p-paralyzed with happiness.’


who began to ask me questions in her low, thrilling voice. It was the kind of voice that the ear fo...free plan limit


could suck on the pap of life, gulp down the incomparable milk of wonder.


‘They’re a rotten crowd,’ I shouted across the lawn. ‘You’re worth the whole damn bunch put togethe...free plan limit


that was true he must have felt that he had lost the old warm world, paid a high price for living t...free plan limit


The Communication Book: 44 Ideas for Better Conversations Every Day, Mikael Krogerus and Roman Tschäppeler


offer something first. Then ask for what you want.


‘white coat’ is.


Be the consistent one, people will remember you for that.


you want someone to do something, show others doing it (‘People who bought this book also bought


Therefore it’s good to tell them what they will lose if they fail to move.


people who are similar to us; we like people who compliment us; we like people who cooperate with u...free plan limit


‘Get in the habit of helping people out, and don’t say, “No big deal.” Say, “Of course; it’s what p...free plan limit


Parkinson’s Law states that Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion


first come comprehension questions, then questions about the process, then debate questions.


meetings are held with everybody standing up because it leads to decisions being reached more quick...free plan limit


Only start deconstructing if you’re prepared to help with the rebuilding. Keep using ‘we’. Especial...free plan limit


easy on the compliments, otherwise they lose their effect.


But pick your battles, only set standards that are important to you – or that you consider to be ge...free plan limit


As a leader, get used to the idea that you are primarily responsible for the supply of energy. In o...free plan limit


Do not put your suggestion forward all in one go, but serve it in small, easily digestible slices i...free plan limit


Keep on asking until everything is on the table. Only then start negotiating,


Good preparation, in other words, is everything.


Anaphora: repetition of a word or phrase,


Irony: saying one thing when you really mean the opposite,


Rhetorical questions:


Analogies (comparisons):


Antithesis: a contrasting thought to produce tension,


(one full sheet of A4 is about four minutes of presentation).


good speech is one that induces the listeners to change their minds, while giving them the feeling ...free plan limit


Abstract: how does it begin?


Orientation: who/where/when?


Complicating action: the problem to be solved


Resolution: solution


Evaluation: what results from it?


Coda: what remains


people do not want logical arguments; they want good stories.


we do not evaluate a story on the basis of arguments, but on the basis of how much we trust or beli...free plan limit


Don’t talk about a concept, a deficiency or a product; talk about an idea. 2. Focus on just one ide...free plan limit


do not be distracted by whether you like the other person or not.


What does the other person need from me? Do we have common interests?


Because perfection is like the unicorn: it’s rumoured to exist, but nobody has ever seen it.


have a Plan B prepared before negotiations even start. This is called the BATNA Principle (Best Alt...free plan limit


most people are prone to being critical, as it gives them a feeling of superiority. They feel like ...free plan limit


people learn better if they are offered constructive feedback.


Whenever you are about to give feedback, ask yourself: ‘How can I make this idea better?’ rather th...free plan limit


In the warmth of a like-minded group people reassure themselves that they are right, that their ana...free plan limit


And any doubts in the room were silenced because if everyone seems enthusiastic and agrees with the...free plan limit


Never argue hesitantly


Doubt and hesitation will only dilute your arguments.


even if your plan is flawed.


We forgive bold people their mistakes, but have no confidence in doubters.


The more you talk, the more interchangeable and ordinary your arguments seem.


make your adversary feel clever. He or she will be flattered and become inattentive. When your oppo...free plan limit


A smiling confession of your own defeat comes across as more self-assured than sullenness.


taciturn


cultural idiosyncrasies are more apparent in the way we communicate than in what we communicate.


Linear-active: if you are intrigued by the questions ‘What? When? How many?’ Multi-active: if you a...free plan limit


‘egocentric speech’


sign of cognitive immaturity.


know that thinking aloud is an excellent method for ordering our thoughts and improving concentrati...free plan limit


second type of self-talk is the inner dialogue.


self-talk serves two different functions: first, concentration; and, second, motivation.


the raw material of conversation has actually disappeared: listening.


resist talking about yourself.


Don’t finish the other person’s


don’t interrupt, even if you think it might show empathy.


Look the other person in the eye – but don’t stare. Nod – but only if you want to agree with what t...free plan limit


Listen out for details in what they are saying and pick up on these later.


Resist the impulse of giving the other person advice – unless of course they specifically ask for i...free plan limit


Take the person away from the smooth surface to deeper levels:


encourage the person to keep talking


Those who manage to start a conversation with strangers, break the ice and treat them like friends ...free plan limit


Ask for advice


other person will feel like a fireman who has successfully extinguished a fire. The psychology behi...free plan limit


Ask a second question


‘What’s keeping you busy these days?’


Don’t pitch your topics. Rather be the one person in the group who is interested in the other perso...free plan limit


‘Enter every conversation assuming that you have something to learn.’ People forget what they talke...free plan limit


visible, conscious part of a discussion is the factual level (what we say or what we talk about), w...free plan limit


The best way to ‘lower the waterline’ of your opponent or partner is to show more of yourself. If y...free plan limit


the willingness of people to voice their opinion in public dwindles in situations where they believ...free plan limit


‘We fear isolation more than being wrong,’


We exert pressure on each other: we pull a face, roll our eyes or turn away


We tend to conceal our opinion if we think that it will expose us to group pressure.


consensus on a subject prevails in a group, it is unlikely that a spiral of silence will begin.


minority opinion can appear to be a majority opinion if its proponents appear confident enough and ...free plan limit


We become quieter if we believe that we are in the minority.


sentences have a ‘propositional’ meaning (this is the information contained in the sentence),


also have an ‘illocutionary’ meaning. This means that we are doing something when we speak, includi...free plan limit


there is a third dimension, the perlocution. Here it is about the extent to which whatever was said...free plan limit


‘What do we do when we speak? What impact do we have when we speak?’


three factors that play a role in persuading us to change our opinion:


The anchor point: this is our basic preferred attitude. This attitude is hard to budge, and we are ...free plan limit


Room for manoeuvre:


Ego involvement:


If you can’t change your mind, then you’re not using it.


(because what you’re implying is: it doesn’t have anything to do with me that your feelings are hur...free plan limit


Say it like it is: ‘I’m sorry that I hurt your feelings.’


admit full responsibility for what you did.


justification is in effect a denial of the apology.


Most effective of all are an explanation and an admission of guilt combined.


Avoid ‘but’ sentences


Nobody likes to grant absolution.


Making an apology is above all a commitment to making a change and an offer to make amends.


keep in mind there are only two ways: you can apologize begrudgingly or sincerely. Choose the latte...free plan limit


want to make a good impression – we tend more towards fibbing and telling tales


In communication theory, lies fall into two categories: do I benefit from the lie or does the perso...free plan limit


White lie – only the person lied to benefits:


Grey lie – both the liar and the person lied to benefit:


Black lie – only the liar benefits:


Red lie – no one benefits:


excellent tool with which to beat around the bush.


But before writing (or speaking), you should ask yourself these questions: What do I really want to...free plan limit


If it’s important, keep it short.


An axiom is a valid truth that needs no proof.


Even if you say nothing, you are saying something.


The content aspect is what we say. The relationship aspect includes how we say things, but also who...free plan limit


our words are 7 per cent, our tone of voice 38 per cent and our body language 55 per cent responsib...free plan limit


we seldom quarrel with ourselves – it will always take two to tango.


If we do not agree whether the communication is complementary or symmetrical, it becomes problemati...free plan limit


Everyone hears what you say. Friends listen to what you say. Best friends listen to what you don’t ...free plan limit


the ideal neighbour at a dinner party was the one who had mastered the fine art of asking questions...free plan limit


They are open questions that you cannot answer with yes or no. 2. The questions require no prior kn...free plan limit


distinguishes between speaking snappishly, ‘language of the jackal’, and speaking from the heart, ‘...free plan limit


We are by nature prone to pass judgement, and what’s more, it is easier to blame someone else than ...free plan limit


People’s three biggest fears: loving someone without being loved in return; searching for friends a...free plan limit


‘Make your conversational contribution such as is required, at the stage at which it occurs, by the...free plan limit


say enough for your counterpart to understand, but don’t say too much, or you will cause confusion.


tell the truth, don’t speculate,


don’t say anything irrelevant, don’t change the subject.


avoid ambiguity, vagueness, verbosity and volatility, and stick to a logical argument.


If someone turns away from us while we are speaking, it violates our expectations of the conversati...free plan limit


This is most easily observed in romantic relationships, where the usage of smartphones and social


The way we understand messages is determined by the sender’s and receiver’s previous history, the c...free plan limit


The Writer on the Hill: The Very Best of Ruskin Bond, Ruskin Bond


supple malacca cane


just as suddenly the trees seemed to have burst into flower; for in the forest there were armies of...free plan limit


twitching.


swerving


The discovery that I could water a field, that I had the power to make things grow, gave me a thril...free plan limit


milling


acquiesce


alacrity.


‘Eton


nightjar.


retinue


There are no absolutes except birth and death.’


hermaphrodite


deriding


swarthy.


sultry.


And the last puff of the day-wind brought from the unseen villages the scent of damp wood-smoke, ho...free plan limit


magpie


cicadas


the cherry’s smooth and polished; the pine’s patterned and whorled; the oak’s rough, gnarled, full ...free plan limit


spirit-haunted rocks don’t let their people wander too far, lest they lose them forever.


lid fastened forever over the tired, wistful countenance of the man who had meant so much to the bo...free plan limit


‘And when all the wars are done,’ I said, ‘a butterfly will still be beautiful.’


THE BHAGAVAD GITA FOR MILLENNIALS, Bibek Debroy


Shruti means that which has been heard or revealed.


A smriti text is something that is remembered, a reference to retention through memory, as knowledg...free plan limit


Upanishads, Brahmasutra (composed by Badarayana) and the Bhagavad Gita.


Gita is something that is sung. It is a poem set to metre.


bhagavat means glorious, divine, blessed,


The Mahabharata was composed by Krishna Dvaipayana Vedavyasa. Every once in a while, someone comes ...free plan limit


mahayuga consists of satya or krita yuga, treta yuga, dvapara yuga and kali yuga. A cycle of creati...free plan limit


The Mahabharata is believed to have 100,000 shlokas. Roughly, each shloka is around twenty words.


BORI’s Critical Edition.


Bhishma Parva covers the period when Bhishma was the general, and the Bhagavad Gita is part of Bhis...free plan limit


sub-parva named after the Bhagavad Gita has a little bit more than what we know as the Bhagavad Git...free plan limit


The Gita dhyana and Gita mahatmya aren’t part of the original text of the Bhagavad Gita. They were ...free plan limit


There is no ‘teaching’ before 2.11.


Mahabharata (O) probably dates to 500 BCE, while Mahabharata (F) probably dates to 500 CE. This is ...free plan limit


Margashirsha is also known as Agrahayana, roughly from around 21 November to 20 December.


calendar begins with the month of Chaitra, roughly from 21 March to 20 April.


Therefore, when this bit of the Bhagavad Gita was composed, Margashirsha (named after the nakshatra...free plan limit


When was Margashirsha the first month of the year? His answer gives us a range between 699 BCE and ...free plan limit


there was a single author for the Bhagavad Gita and five different authors for the Mahabharata. Nat...free plan limit


(When choosing between two competing theories, choose the one with fewer assumptions.)


Therefore, a single author composed the Bhagavad Gita around fifth century BCE.


The earliest manuscript was from Adyar Library, Madras (now Chennai), dated 1506 CE.


Bhagavad Gita, there was a Kashmiri version dated 1489 CE. There is also a 1492 CE Bhagavad Gita ma...free plan limit


International Alphabet of Sanskrit Transliteration (IAST)


Translations are always imperfect. They can never replicate the original. Even when they are good t...free plan limit


The structure of Sanskrit grammar is so logical that the order of words does not matter.


The Vedangas are limbs or auxiliaries and the six Vedangas are shiksha (articulation and pronunciat...free plan limit


One of the most popular was something called anushtubh.


When a poet changed the metre, it was a conscious decision reflecting a change in mood or sentiment...free plan limit


Pavaka is something that purifies. Hence, when I see the word it not only registers as fire, but as...free plan limit


the Pandavas had seven akshauhinis and the Kauravas had eleven akshauhinis. An akshauhini is a unit...free plan limit


Until conch shells were blown and trumpets sounded to announce the beginning of fighting in the mor...free plan limit


The major Puranas are eighteen in number.


With time and inclination to read only one more text, other than the Mahabharata, I would pick the ...free plan limit


kshetra is a place of pilgrimage where there is no flowing water and tirtha is a place of pilgrimag...free plan limit


As we will see later, kshetra is the physical body and kshetrajna is the atman. Hence, dharmakshetr...free plan limit


an acharya is inferior to a guru. Gurgaon (Gurugram) is named after Dronacharya’s hermitage. So why...free plan limit


Bhishma was the overall commander of the Kaurava army, Dhrishtadyumna was the overall commander of ...free plan limit


there was enmity and rivalry between Drupada and Dronacharya. Perhaps Duryodhana wished to remind D...free plan limit


The Chandogya Upanishad is a major Upanishad and is dated to between eighth and sixth century BCE.


Megasthenes wrote a book called Indika, which has now been lost.


Krishna’s father was Vasudeva and Vasudeva’s father was Shurasena.


Panini, dated to the sixth or fifth century BCE, was a great Sanskrit grammarian who formalized San...free plan limit


Patanjali (second century BCE) was another great Sanskrit grammarian, who wrote a commentary on Pan...free plan limit


Sanskrit playwright named Bhasa. He pre-dated Kalidasa and is dated third or fourth century CE.


Jataka stories; stories about the past lives of the Buddha. These are dated to a period between 300...free plan limit


references in the Jaina (Jain) tradition, mentioning that Krishna was a contemporary of Arishtanemi...free plan limit


Vidisha used to be known as Besnagar.


Heliodorus Column or Heliodorus Pillar. This Heliodorus was an ambassador of King Antialcidas/Antia...free plan limit


other inscriptions from around Chittorgarh in Rajasthan, known as Hathibada Ghosundi inscriptions. ...free plan limit


In 1850, Henry David Thoreau wrote, ‘Some circumstantial evidence is very strong, as when you find ...free plan limit


the probability is pretty high that Krishna was a real person. I think the Ockham’s razor principle...free plan limit


All the other methods (archaeology, geological changes, changes in Sanskrit grammar, genealogical l...free plan limit


Mahabharata tells us Krishna died thirty-six years after the Kurukshetra War. I should tell you tha...free plan limit


there was a gap of almost one thousand years between Krishna’s life and the composition of Mahabhar...free plan limit


When intelligence matures and lodges securely in the mind, it becomes wisdom. When wisdom is integr...free plan limit


Sri Aurobindo’s Essays on the Gita.19


As an individual, you possess a heart, a mind and a body. Ideally, the three should be in balance a...free plan limit


If you don’t want to ignore it, yoga means ‘bringing together’. Therefore, simply means bringing to...free plan limit


There were six systems of darshana (loosely, philosophical schools of thought). These were Nyaya, V...free plan limit


Patanjali and the Yoga Sutra he compiled, around 400 CE. There are 196 sutras or aphorisms in Patan...free plan limit


yama, niyama, asana, pranayama, pratyahara, dharana, dhyana and samadhi.


Yama includes rules for self-control, like non-violence and truthfulness. Niyama has norms for beha...free plan limit


One of these meanings is union—union between the human and the divine.


The Mahabharata is divided into eighteen sections, known as Parvas.


‘Seated in a secluded place, alone, controlled in mind and body, without desire, without receiving ...free plan limit


Kusha is sacred grass.


Pranayama has three components: puraka, rechaka and kumbhaka.


The second element the Bhagavad Gita synthesizes is samkhya


The word has multiple meanings, but broadly, this school of darshana is about rational determinatio...free plan limit


Samkhya has notions of the three gunas (qualities) of sattva (purity), rajas (passion) and tamas (i...free plan limit


ashvattha is the holy fig tree. Devarshis are divine sages. Gandharvas are semi-divine species who ...free plan limit


Stories of Your Life and Others: Ted Chiang (Picador Collection), Ted Chiang


dikes.


In 1770, Captain Cook’s ship Endeavour ran aground on the coast of Queensland, Australia. While som...free plan limit


Mossad, Michael BarZohar and Nissim Mishal


Beirut, Damascus, Baghdad, and Tunis, and in their battle stations in Paris, Rome,


Imad Mughniyeh,


President Mubarak,


President Assad


Mediterranean coast,


Gaza.


Palestinians,


keffiyehs


Tyre refugee


Beth Lahia


Captain Meir Dagan,


1967 Six-Day War


Doberman,


"Rimon,"


Tel Aviv.


Yom Kippur War,


1982 Lebanon War,


Sharon


The Complete Works of Leo Tolstoy: Novels, Short Stories, Plays, Memoirs, Letters &amp; Essays on Art, Religion and Politics: Anna Karenina, War and Peace, ... and Stories for Children and Many More, Leo Tolstoy and Ilya Repin and Louise Maude and Aylmer Maude and Constance Garnett and enjamin R. Tucker and Leo Wiener and Nathan Haskell Dole and C. J. Hogarth and R. Nisbat Bain and Isabel Hapgood and George Calderon and Constantine Popoff and and V. Tchertkoff


aunt’s house in Kazán was another obstacle to


smiteth thee on the right cheek, turn to him the other


Socrates, Epictetus, Confucius, Mencius, Marcus Aurelius,


To be an enthusiast had become her social vocation and, sometimes even when she did not feel like i...free plan limit


he added with studied carelessness as if it had only just occurred to him, though the question he w...free plan limit


chimerical.


“‘Dieu me la donne, gare a qui la touche!’


he did not know, as the saying is, how to enter a drawing room and still less how to leave one; tha...free plan limit


stumbling with his tongue as well as with his feet.


“If no one fought except on his own conviction, there would be no wars,”


“Well, why are you going to the war?” asked Pierre. “What for? I don’t know. I must. Besides that I...free plan limit


don’t understand it; I don’t in the least understand why men can’t live without wars.


“Never, never marry, my dear fellow! That’s my advice: never marry till you can say to yourself tha...free plan limit


Bonaparte when he worked went step by step toward his goal. He was free, he had nothing but his aim...free plan limit


Prince Andrew’s calm manner of treating everybody, his extraordinary memory, his extensive reading ...free plan limit


Even in the best, most friendly and simplest relations of life, praise and commendation are essenti...free plan limit


thought immediately occurred to him that his promise to Prince Andrew was of no account, because be...free plan limit


